---
title: Homework 2
subtitle: Filters, kernels, and transforms
downloads:
  - file: hw_02.ipynb
    title: hw_02.ipynb
  - file: homework.py
    title: homework.py
abstract: |
    Abstract goes here.
---

::::{dropdown} Modules
:::{code-cell} python
import os
import cv2
import numpy as np
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
import ipywidgets as widgets # may not need
import homework as hw # see homework.py file
import pywt # may not need
:::
::::

## Problem 1

Define a function to implement the peak-signal-to-noise calculation.

:::{tip}
SNR provided in lecture 4
:::

## Problem 2

Using any image you like, do the following:

1. Implement a spatial frequency low-pass filter at $\frac{1}{3}$ the Nyquist frequency of the image using a top-hat window (e.g., binary 0/1).
2. Calculate the peak SNR comparing the two images.

:::{important}
Put your image in the data folder for this repository.
:::

## Problem 3
Implement a similar low-pass filter as [Problem 2](#problem-2) ($\frac{1}{3}$ the Nyquist) in the spatial domain as a kernel convolution. Use a top-hat window (e.g., without worrying about tapering the edges). Use the same image you used in [Problem 2](#problem-2).

:::{tip}
Use the `sinc` function definitions presented in lecture 5.
:::

## Problem 4
Define a function to implement a mean smoothing kernel filter. As an input to your function, allow the user to select between an arithmetic, geometric, harmonic mean, or contraharmonic mean (`m` should be an input parameter). Design your function to allow any arbitrary binary morphological kernel.

## Problem 5
Define a function to compute the discrete cosine transform of an image. Include code to pad the image appropriately.

:::{tip}
The equation for the DCT was given in lecture 4.
:::

