---
title: Description
---

## Introduction

Over the course of the semester, you will build software to implement either image processing of still images (for 1360 students) or a video feed (for 2360 students). We will build this program in a set of modular stages and milestones. We will have to plan the entire project so that our stages not only fit together to make the final product, but also your project will incorporate other people's code as well.

The project can have whatever theme you want. Some ideas could be a program that counts the number of coins in an image, identifies facial expressions, finds and tracks videos of cars, etc. You can pick whatever you want as long as it has the elements described below.

## Specifications

### Overall design specifications

- Code written in Python3 using OpenCV
- Code must be compliant with MIT use license
- Code must be documented on GitHub
- Code must include demonstration/example code

### Inputs

- (for 1360 students) Must be able to load and process still images
- (for 2360 students) Must take in a video feed from a webcam

### Outputs

- Must be able to save modified still images in at least two different formats
- One of the data formats must implement compression
- (for 2360 students) Must allow feed into a virtual camera

### ECE 1390 Students
- Load/Save and process still image
- Include an image enhancement method
- Include an image filtering method
- Include an edge detection method
- Demonstrate segmentation
- Include some object recognition
- Incorporate one additional method from class code

### ECE 2390 Students
- Load/Save and process still image
- Include an image enhancement method
- Include an image filtering method
- Include an edge detection method
- Demonstrate segmentation
- Include some object recognition
- Include some object tracking
- Incorporate three additional methods from class code

## Grading

__20% Project peer score__

- Part of your grade will be based on how your other teammates feel you contributed. At the mid-point and end of the course there will be a rubric to score your project peers.

__20% Class peer score__

- Part of your grade will be based on your peers' feedback on your project

__20% Final project__

- Did you meet the requirements?
- Is the code documented and annotated?
- Was GitHub used effectively?

## Timeline and Milestones

### Project "Investor" Pitch (Due 9/4/2024)

- Each group will have 2 minutes to pitch their idea. ("elevator pitch")
- One PowerPoint slide may be used (sent to Dr. Huppert prior to class)
- Class will have five minutes to ask questions, make suggestions, get clarifications, etc. (think focus group feedback)

### Project White Paper (Due 9/11/2024)

Basically, I want you to write a one-page proposal (sometimes called a white paper proposal). The purpose of a white paper is often to try to convince a supervisor, investor, etc to invest time or money in your project. You need to set clear expectations about the project and what the deliverables will be, the scope of the work involved to develop the project, and any metrics of success for the project. You should uploade this as the README.md for the GitHub project.

I expect that this document will change over time and changes in your approach should be documented on the GitHub file. However, I want you to have some plan for what you want the project to accomplish.

Include the following sections:

#### Description

Brief paragraph about the idea for the project and why it should be developed. You should explain how the deliverables will be used and who is the target consumer.

#### Code Specifications

IN this case, you will be both the proposer of the project and its key software developer. However, you should write up the code specifications such that any other engineer would also be able to develop the project. This should include the expected inputs (type of images, video rates, does it require a certain type of data, etc.), the output generated by the algorithm (e.g., is there a displayed image or just a value or classification label), and any additional code requirements (e.g., its intended for real-time video).

#### Planned Approach

How do you initially plan to implement this project? Is there a specific algorithm or module that will be used? Include a description of the elements of the class that will be incorporated into the project.

#### Time-line

How long do you think this is going to take and are there any milestone?

#### Metrics of Success

How will you know if the project works?

#### Pitfalls and Alternative Solutions

Do you have a backup plan? Where do you expect to have issues?

### Final Project (Due 12/9/2024)

The final project will be due __by__ the last day of class and we will spend the last lecture showing off the projects and discussing them. In addition to the four milestones, by the end of the project you need to also incorporate methods from someone else's code developed in this course into your own project. You will need to fork their project and add methods into your own. If you need to fix or modify their program, then I want to see a push request of the changes back to the owner code as well.

## Using Existing Code

__Yes you can borrow code and methods.__

- If you borrow code or use some tutorial to learn how do do the problem, then cite it.
- Make the code your own. If you borrow code, then change variable names to be consistent with the rest of your code/library.
- Markup your notebooks and code with proper web-links
- Implement best practices in coding
- Names for variables/methods should be descriptive
- Code should be succinct and clearly explain what it does
- Methods should document expected inputs/outputs/dependencies
- Yes, it's find to comment (e.g.,) "I don't know why this flag is TRUE, but it doesn't work otherwise"
- Make sure someone else could read and understand your code
- Use GitHub. Document changes, do pull requests, issue reports when needed.






























